doc: add OTA section to device management (#42557)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/guides/device_mgmt/ota.rst

.. _ota:

Over-the-Air Update
###################

Overview
********

Over-the-Air (OTA) Update is a method for delivering firmware updates to remote
devices using a network connection. Although the name implies a wireless

> connection, devices receiving updates over a wired connection (such as Ethernet)
> are still commonly referred to by OTA. This approach requires server

Reviewer: This doesn't parse. The devices aren't referred to by "OTA", the updates are. How about this instead:

```suggestion
connection, updates received over a wired connection (such as Ethernet)
are still commonly referred to as OTA updates. This approach requires server
```

Author: Good feedback, thanks! I'll incorporate this change in an update to the commit.

infrastructure to host the firmware binary and implement a method of signaling
when an update is available.

The :ref:`dfu` section discusses upgrading Zephyr firmware using MCUboot. The
same method can be used as part of OTA. The binary is first downloaded
into an unoccupied code partition, then flashed using the `MCUboot bootloader`_
process.

Examples of OTA
***************

Golioth
=======

> `Golioth`_ is an IoT management platform that includes Zephyr OTA updates.

Reviewer: What does it mean to "include Zephyr OTA updates"?

Author: Heh, fair enough. I'm removing Zephyr from that sentence.

Devices are configured to observe your available firmware revisions on the
Golioth Cloud. When a new version is available, the device downloads and flashes
the binary.

Security is a concern with OTA updates. In this implementation, the connection
between cloud and device is secured using TLS/DTLS, and the signed firmware binary

> is confirmed by MCUboot before flashing occurs.

Reviewer: Security is mentioned here but not anywhere else. For parallelism, I think it makes sense to:

- move the blanket statement that security is a concern higher up, outside of the sections for any individual solution
- document the security related bits of the implementation for each solution

Author: Will do.

1. A working sample can be found on the `Golioth Zephyr-SDK repository`_
2. The `Golioth OTA documentation`_ includes complete information about the
   versioning process

Eclipse hawkBit |trade|
=======================

`Eclipse hawkBit`_ |trade| is a domain independent back-end framework for rolling out
software updates to constrained edge devices as well as more powerful
controllers and gateways connected to IP based networking infrastructure.

There is a :ref:`hawkbit-api-sample` included in the
Zephyr :ref:`mgmt-samples` section.

UpdateHub
=========

`UpdateHub`_ is an enterprise-grade solution which makes it simple to remotely
update all your Linux-based devices in the field, with maximum security and

> efficiency, while you focus on adding value to your product.

Reviewer: IMO this is **way** too fluffy for a technical page; was it copy/pasted from some marketing copy for UpdateHub? I think that's not appropriate if so. Let's focus on the technical aspects of the solution here, please.

Also, why do we care about updating Linux-based devices here? This is Zephyr, not Linux.

Author: Good criticism, and yes I just pulled the paragraph from their web page since I'm not familiar with the project. I have reworked this entry following your feedback.

There is an :ref:`updatehub_fota_sample` included in the Zephyr

> :ref:`mgmt-samples` section.

Reviewer: Were lwm2m firmware updates via the standard Firmware object (see `CONFIG_LWM2M_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_OBJ_SUPPORT`) intentionally omitted? If so, why?

Author: It was omitted because I didn't know about it. It seems the firmware upgrade support in LwM2M is largely undocumented (in the Zephyr docs) and not included in the LwM2M client sample. I'm adding a section to reference it as an option.

binaries should be cryptographically signed and verified before flashing.

The :ref:`dfu` section discusses upgrading Zephyr firmware using MCUboot. The
same method can be used as part of OTA. The binary is first downloaded
into an unoccupied code partition, then flashed using the `MCUboot bootloader`_
process.

Examples of OTA
***************

Golioth
=======

`Golioth`_ is an IoT management platform that includes OTA updates. Devices are
configured to observe your available firmware revisions on the Golioth Cloud.
When a new version is available, the device downloads and flashes the binary. In
this implementation, the connection between cloud and device is secured using
TLS/DTLS, and the signed firmware binary is confirmed by MCUboot before flashing
occurs.

1. A working sample can be found on the `Golioth Zephyr-SDK repository`_
2. The `Golioth OTA documentation`_ includes complete information about the
   versioning process

Eclipse hawkBit |trade|
=======================

`Eclipse hawkBit`_ |trade| is an update server framework that uses polling on a
REST api to detect firmware updates. When a new update is detected, the binary

> is downloaded and MCUboot verifies the signature before flashing the firmware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is downloaded and installed. MCUboot can be used to verify the signature before flashing the firmware.
```

I think it's worth making some change along these lines because hawkbit itself doesn't require mcuboot; that's an implementation decision made by the sample. Feel free to reword if you want.

Author: Good suggestion, thanks.

There is a :ref:`hawkbit-api-sample` included in the
Zephyr :ref:`mgmt-samples` section.

UpdateHub
=========

`UpdateHub`_ is a platform for remotely updating embedded devices. Updates can
be manually triggered or monitored via polling. When a new update is detected,
the binary is downloaded and MCUboot verifies the signature before flashing the

> firmware.

Reviewer: Similarly, does updatehub require mcuboot, or is that an implementation decision in upstream zephyr's updatehub integration?

Author: I don't know the answer to this; the sample uses MCUboot. I think your wording from the previous comment also makes sense here.

There is an :ref:`updatehub_fota_sample` included in the Zephyr
:ref:`mgmt-samples` section.

SMP Server
==========

A Simple Management Protocol (SMP) server can be used to update firmware via
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) or UDP. :ref:`mcu_mgr` is used to send a signed firmware
binary to the remote device where it is verified and flashed by MCUboot.

There is an :ref:`smp_svr_sample` included in the Zephyr :ref:`mgmt-samples`
section.

Lightweight M2M (LWM2M)
=======================

The :ref:`lwm2m_interface` protocol includes support for firmware update via

> ``CONFIG_LWM2M_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_OBJ_SUPPORT``. Devices securely connect to an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:kconfig:`CONFIG_LWM2M_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_OBJ_SUPPORT`. Devices securely connect to an
```

When referring to Kconfig options within the Zephyr documentation, it's preferred to use the `:kconfig:` Sphinx role like the above. This generates a link to a page with more information about the option, such as its dependencies, help text, etc.

(Similarly, when referring to devicetree compatibles, use the `:dtcompatible:` role to get a link into the appropriate bindings index page.)

Author: I'm glad you mentioned this. When I added this section I first tried using the `:kconfig:` identifier. It generates the link but the url looks like it doesn't go where you think it should:
```
~/golioth-compile/zephyr/doc/_build/html/reference/kconfig/dummy-syms.html#std-kconfig-CONFIG_LWM2M_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_OBJ_SUPPORT
```

I'll put it in and submit an updated commit. Thanks!

.. _ota:

Over-the-Air Update
###################

Overview
********

Over-the-Air (OTA) Update is a method for delivering firmware updates to remote
devices using a network connection. Although the name implies a wireless
connection, updates received over a wired connection (such as Ethernet)
are still commonly referred to as OTA updates. This approach requires server
infrastructure to host the firmware binary and implement a method of signaling
when an update is available. Security is a concern with OTA updates; firmware
binaries should be cryptographically signed and verified before flashing.

The :ref:`dfu` section discusses upgrading Zephyr firmware using MCUboot. The
same method can be used as part of OTA. The binary is first downloaded

> into an unoccupied code partition, then flashed using the `MCUboot bootloader`_

Reviewer 2: maybe "... into an unoccupied code partition, usually named `slot1_partition`, then upgraded using..." ?

Author: Sounds good, thanks!

> process.

Reviewer 2: I find this terminology a bit weird for MCUboot users, it would be better to say something like ", then upgraded to using the ..."

Reviewer 2: Also instead of pointing to the MCUboot website, you could just refer to the Zephyr docs which already have some MCUboot specific information with: ref:\`mcuboot`

Author: > ", then upgraded to using the ..."

Got it, thanks!

> Also instead of pointing to the MCUboot website, you could just refer to the Zephyr docs which already have some MCUboot specific information with: ref:`mcuboot`

I looked and I don't see a Zephyr docs page on MCUboot. Am I just missing it? The DFU page which I've already linked in this paragraph discuses it.

Reviewer 2: The MCUboot reference I mentioned is actually a section inside the DFU page, you can link to it using ":ref:\`mcuboot`"

Author: Thanks for the clarification, I've pushed this change.

Examples of OTA
***************

Golioth
=======

`Golioth`_ is an IoT management platform that includes OTA updates. Devices are
configured to observe your available firmware revisions on the Golioth Cloud.
When a new version is available, the device downloads and flashes the binary. In
this implementation, the connection between cloud and device is secured using

> TLS/DTLS, and the signed firmware binary is confirmed by MCUboot before flashing

Reviewer 2: "before the upgrade occurs", and so on...

Author: Got it, thanks!
